- As developers, our general strength lies
in building systems.
A huge part of the problem in secure coding
is that we are builders.
So we need to change our mindset a little
in order to truly be effective as a secure coder.
Developers interested in proving their security footprint
need to develop the skill of breaking code.
Now I'm not going to argue
that you should be an expert penetration tester,
but there is real value in learning the basics
of attacking systems.
Now some developers may want to go deep
and learn how to write exploit attacks.
And while this can be an amazing skill,
it's over the top of what you really need to do
in my opinion.
The fact is that there are several really great tools
on the market that allow you to attack your code
without a lot of extended learning.
The value of using these tools is that you can start looking
at actual exploits in your code.
By breaking your code,
you can gain many valuable insights into your application.
You will see how data is accessed and used.
You will see how logging output is generated
and eventually consumed.
It becomes a natural learning exercise that will increase
your knowledge of the code base as a whole.
One of the biggest benefits of learning to break software
is that you get to interact with security professionals.
This is powerful
when you consider how important collaboration is
for a development team.
Constructive collaboration with team members
can never be discounted.
Constructive collaboration with security teams
can be even more valuable
for today's development teams.
This concept of DevSecOps really is about bringing security
into your development process
the same way that we brought operations
into our processes for DevOps.
Everyone on the team learns and becomes responsible
for the security footprint of the application.
Once developers understand how to break software
and start to have more constructive conversations
with security professionals,
the entire team benefits.
You will hopefully see faster turnaround on bug fixes
and better testing as the knowledge base grows on your team.
Another advantage from learning to break software
is that if you know how to break software,
you are prepared to fix your software
or better yet prevent security defects to begin with.
This skill of breaking software
can create a culture of secure coding.
Now I encourage you as a developer
to take time to learn the basics
and you will find amazing results
in how you and your team approach security.